# CVD Lipidomics

This repository contains the analysis used in our preprint:

## Identification of novel plasma lipid markers of cardiovascular disease risk in White and Black women

Raghav Jain, Jessica Davidson, Paula Gonzalez, Christopher L Coe, Camille King, Carol Ryff, Andrew J Bersch, Sheher Mohsin, Gayle D Love, Francesca Nimityongskul, Kristen Malecki, and Judith Simcox

 https://doi.org/10.1101/2022.08.24.22279186


*UPDATE 12/28/2022*

-Code related to analysis of <a href="midus.wisc.edu">MIDUS</a> data is now available in a Quarto document. Data associated with the analysis are randomly generated data and NOT the data reported in our manuscript. MIDUS policy does not allow any publishing of raw data sets. Requests for original data should be sent to the MIDUS study. 

-Oxylipid data generated in the study by the Simcox Lab has been deposited to the MIDUS data repository. 

*UPDATE 12/24/2022*

-Code related to analysis of <a href="show.wisc.edu">SHOW</a> data has been posted, along with the de-identfied working dataset and expected outputs. The information is in a Quarto document with an associated .html rendering for viewing in browsers. These files are in the 'SHOW_analysis' folder.

-Code related renaming lipid names from MIDUS (generated by Metabolon using the Sciex Lipidyzer platform) was previously uploaded. A file with original lipid names and code to rename the data and split into individual lipid species and class sum data is included in a Rmarkdown document. These files are in the 'MIDUS_analysis' folder.

All lipidomics data from the MIDUS study must be requested by contacting the <a href="midus.wisc.edu">MIDUS</a> study administrators.
Any data presented here was randomly generated - it is NOT the data used in our analyses. 
